---
layout: post
title: How I became a better Data Scientist
---
### Introduction
    So I am officially in my fourth week of the Metis Data Science Bootcamp. I've learned so much, and now feel that I am more equipped with the tools necessary to answer questions that I am interested in. <break> </break>
    One of my biggest goals in life is to work on products that will help people connect with experiences that help them see and appreciate beauty in life. One of my favorite products is Spotify, so naturally I wanted to do something with it. The question I sought to answer was if I could predict how many weeks a given song would break the Billboards Top 100 Weekly Charts. 
    
    
### Question and Approach
    
    In trying to answer this question, I had to explore what available resources I had within my reach. One of the goals of this project was learning to scrape webpages with BeautifulSoup to gather data to use in our predictive model. I chose to scrape Billboard.com and went all the way back to 1958 when they first started to release the Weekly Top 100 Charts. I also discovered the Kaggle Million Song Dataset which contained many features of various songs, that I could try to utilize in my model! While I was looking through the dataset I noticed that some values were missing, so I decided to cross-reference my information with the Spotify API. The reasoning behind this was because I knew that much of the data provided in the Kaggle dataset was generated by Echo Nest, a music analysis start up that was based on Boston. Over the years since this dataset was published, Spotify bought Echo Nest and was able to implement their technology for their music library!
    
### Some Obstacles
    As a beginning programmer, I have no experience in working with APIs. Through this project, I got familiar with the Spotify API...very familiar. Seeing all the empty cells in my Kaggle Dataset was discouraging, because I was not expecting to have to engineer data nor find ways to remedy this problems. Getting over this mental cliff was tough, but I had no choice--I have to complete this project. I encounted many mental obstacles because this was the first project that I was going to complete from start to finish by myself. Despite not coming from a strong programming background, I was held to the same standards as everyone. Thankfully, I found myself surrounded by helpful instructors and supportive classmates, many of whom I spent many late nights working together in solidarity. What they say is true: it doesn't matter how many times you fall, what matters is your get up more times than that.
   
   
### What I've learned
    Linear regression, the predictive model employed in this project was not a very good algorthm to model my question. In fact, I ended up finding that RandomForest provided me a much better RMSE (Root Mean Squared Error). If I have time later, I would love to further refine my model and explore alternateive feature engineering approaches.
    
    But beyond the technical skills that I've learned and acquired, I think I've grown so much as a person and Data Scientist.
    I've learned to ask for help more willingly. That is not to say that whenever I encountered a problem, I immediately sought help, but I wanted to communicate that I knew when I had tried my hardest to answer the question on my own (with the help of StackOverflow), and needed to admit to myself that someone with more experience would be able to guide my thinking and provide pointers. I learned grit, perseverence and humility.
    
    I also learned to think about potential business problems that I wanted to solve. For me, I wanted to (hopefully) identify what was the most strategic way to manage campaigns and single releases. One of the largest determining factor about how well an artist does, is how popular they are. I had to try to quantify their popularity and social influence, and capture how "shareable" their songs are. This was challenging, and required me to be creative, a muscle that I have failed to exercise in a long time.
    
### Conclusion
    Although I was not able to answer my research question with the results that I wanted, I am glad that I was able to work through this problem. It was definitely an informative experience, and I am excited to take this newfound knowledge with me for my Data Science journey.
